Title: Special Session WeRob 2020
Date: 2020-06-10 20:30
Category: WeRob2020
url: 
save_as: index.html


## Special session WeRob 2020 - R10

WeR10. Musculoskeletal modelling to evaluate and optimize performance of wearable robotic devices

Organizers: Maarten Afschrift, Friedl De Groote, Sam van Rossom


## Abstract:

Our poor understanding of how wearable robotics influence the underlying physiology and musculoskeletal mechanics of the user limits optimal design. One of the main problems is that multiple important evaluation criteria, such as joint loading and muscle energetics, cannot easily be measured experimentally. Therefore, we are restricted to crude evaluation measures which limit the current understanding. Musculoskeletal modelling enables the estimation of evaluation criteria that are difficult to measure using mathematical modelling and simulation. This facilitates a more in-depth evaluation of device performance and can provide more insight in the interaction between wearable robotic devices and human physiology. Furthermore, musculoskeletal modelling has the potential to further optimize the design and control of wearable robotic devices in simulations. However, this method requires accurate models of the human neuromusculoskeletal system as well as its interaction with the wearable robotic devices. In this session, we will discuss the current state-of-the-art in musculoskeletal modelling techniques to evaluate and optimize the performance of wearable robotic devices. 

## Invited speakers

### Anne Koelewijn, Friedrich-Alexander-University of Erlangen-Nürnberg

Title: Investigating Energy Optimization in Walking Using Predictive Musculoskeletal Simulations

### Nick Bianco, Stanford University

Title: Musculoskeletal simulations reveal the metabolic benefits of exoskeleton assistance strategies that couple multiple degrees-of-freedom

### Richard Nuckols, Harvard University

Title: Ultrasound imaging of plantarflexor muscles: Effects of ankle exoskeleton assistance on muscle-tendon dynamics during walking and application towards improved exosuit control

### Ali Tabasi, Vrije Universiteit Amsterdam

Title: Effects of different control strategies of a back-support exoskeleton on the torque actively generated by back-extensors





